# White Women Voters in the 2016 Presidential Election

As the first ever female Democratic frontrunner, Hillary Clinton emphasized that she was trying to "shatter that highest, hardest glass ceiling." In stark contrast, Donald Trump routinely made explicitly sexist statements that seemed to break important social norms of gender equality. Just a month before the general election, a 2005 tape of Donald Trump bragging about sexual assault was leaked. Despite this, 53% of white women voted for Trump in the general election. Is there any evidence that the gendered aspects of the 2016 election meaningfully altered white women’s electoral attitudes or behavior? This project examines how feminist or anti-mysoginist attitudes did (or did not) influence white women's voting behavior. The data comes from the 2016 American National Election Study (ANES), which is publically avaliable here: http://www.electionstudies.org/studypages/download/datacenter_all_NoData.php. The cleaned ANES subset used for this project is provided here.

Women in the 2016 Election Final.csv: This dataset was taken from the ANES. The variables have been cleaned, recoded, and organized to allow for analysis. It icludes demographic inforamtion, self-reported voting behavior, political preferences, and gender attitutdes.

Women voters and Trump.r: This code examines the effects of feminism and sexism on vote choice, absenteeism, feelings toward Trump, and reactions to the Trump tape. It finds that while Republcian and Democratic women have similair gender attitudes, they had almost no impact on Republican women's vote choice.

Figure 1: This figure presents the reuslts of one set of analyses conducted in the .r file. It shows that while the predicted probability of voting for Trump declined among white women with strong feminist or anti-sexst attitudes, it never dropped below 50%. In other words, the effect of gender attitudes was not large enough to have an impact on the final electoral outcome among white women.

Figure 2: This figure presents another set of analyses conducted in the r. file. It shows partisan bias in perceptions of Trump. The top panel of the figure shows that Democratic women were more likely to say that the Trump tape should have mattered more as they became less accepting of sexism. By contrast, Republican women's evaluation of the Trump tape was largely unaffected by their gender attitudes —— the probability of saying the tape should have mattered more was not signifiacntly different for those who were the most versus least accetping of sexism. A similiar pattern appears in bottom panel regarding perceptions of Trump's treatment of women.
